So now we are going to see how we can start doing the extraction and indexing.
And for the first operation of the abstracting and indexing is we need to extract the file that we are
going to work with for our large language model to get more intelligence and context.
So how are we going to do that?
Well, in order for us to extract the file, first of all you need to have some files.
So what I have did over here is I have added some files over here in our section five of Rag with document
over here.
So I have created this particular file.
I mean I have added some papers really.
So these are basically some large language model papers that I have added.
So I can quickly show you what this document is going to be.
So if I just reveal in finder, um, over here, you see that we have got some attention, which is
nothing, but the attention is all you need.
Paper.
Um, this is this one.
This is the actual paper which is used.
I mean, for sure, you might have known that this is the paper which is used to show how the transformer
model has gained the the power of attention.
And based on that, the entire large language model trend has started up.
So yeah, that is what this particular paper is all about.
So we are going to store this particular, uh, paper into our vector database.
And then we're going to retrieve from there, and we're going to make use of the large language model
as well, while answering or questioning the large language model.
And then we are also going to have this particular PDF file, which is this guy, as you can see.
And this is going to be testing and evaluating, uh, the large language model for correctness, non-toxicity
and fairness.
So this is also one of the most interesting paper.
And I have learned quite a lot of the details from this particular paper, because this paper will also
tells you like how you can use the LM for testing of the factual correctness of LM, testing of logical
reasoning and correctness of LM, and how you can evaluate for a multilingual safety of LMS.
Social bias of LMS and all those details so we can ask them testing related questions from this particular
document.
So this is amazing.
And finally, I also have got the LM forgetting, which is the catastrophic forgetting in the large
language model.
So this is one of the most important key concept that we are going to be doing in this particular section
anyways, which is the context length that I was talking about.
And the catastrophic forgetting in LM is mainly during the continual fine tuning.
So we can ask some questions related to how the large language model loses the context while it keeps
on learning new data and forgetting the old data while it is being trained.
So that is what this particular document is all about.
And we are going to extract this document and we are going to store this particular document as well.
So we will see how we can able to achieve all these operation in this particular section.
So for that, I am once again going to create a new notebook over here.
I am going to go save this particular notebook.
I'm going to call this particular notebook as the rag for PDF.
I'm going to save this over here and we can start working from here.
So the first part which I'm going to do is I'm going to do Rag with a PDF data extraction uh, to give
context to LM.
Amazing.
So that's the main topic that we have got.
And over here I'm going to start working with the PDF extraction.
So in order for me to read the PDF and extract, uh, the information from the PDF, we need to have
some sort of document loaders.
So there are many different document loaders available in uh, the long chain.
So if you just go over here and if you see here in the components, they have got what is called as
the document loaders.
So this is the most important detail that we also need to know while working with the external data
sources.
For instance if you have a CSV Data like a large set of X data.
And if you want to load them and work with that, you can use what is called a CSV loader.
You see that that's straightforward.
You can just call the CSV loader and put your CSV file there.
And then you can load the loader using this particular method.
That's all.
That's what it's going to do.
And if you want to load a web page by doing web scraping and get information out from that particular
web page, you can also do that using this particular web loader.
And then there is this unstructured.
If you have got the unstructured page and if you want to parse that and get the structured data details,
then you can use this unstructured package.
Similarly there is something called as a recursive URL sitemap fire crawl a third party application
which does that for you, and also the doc link which is a third party.
And also there is this hyper browser which is also third party.
You can use it for performing all the different web scraping that you wanted to do.
And also you can run this in headless mode to uh, to perform all the operations.
So this is quite interesting.
I was just reading through this one hyper, uh, browser platform.
You'll notice that the hyper browser platform is a platform for running and scaling headless browsers
in secure, isolated containers built for web automation and AI driven use cases.
And most importantly, it will also do capture handling.
It will automatically solve capture for streamline automated workflows, which is awesome.
So we can use this kind of tool while we actually are going to be working with the data extractions
and stuff.
This is also quite interesting way of doing data extractions.
And yeah, these are the different types of document loaders we have got.
And in the PDF part we have something called as py pdf uh unstructured Amazon Textract.
Mathematics PDF.
Plumber PDF.
PDF.
PDF directory.
There are so many of these.
And similarly there are cloud providers social platform messaging platform productivity tools.
You can see there are so many document loaders available.
Well, the one document that we are going to be using in this particular section is nothing but the
PDF pi PDF.
So I'm going to go to my Visual Studio over here, and I need to install the Pi PDF in order for me
to start extracting the data from my PDF file.
So I'm going to say pip.
Install pi pdf and I'm going to run it.
But before that I need to select the kernel uh over here.
And I'm going to run this over here.
So you see that the Pi PDF is now immediately installed, which is quite amazing.
And once we have the Pi PDF then we have to, uh, load our, uh, as usual stuffs from the uh, environment
variable as well as set the, uh, the LM object.
So I'm going to go copy this whole code that we have written already.
And I'm not even going to add any like description, their like meta information because you already
know about these things.
We have did this enough time so far.
And also we're going to import the whole armor.
And I do that over here.
Run it.
That's going to have our LM, uh, object, which is amazing.
And I think that's all from this particular piece of code.
We don't require that anymore.
And now we're going to do the first part of our diagram, which is going to be the extracting of the
files.
So that is the first part that we have to do.
So in order for the extraction of the files, we are going to say maybe put a markdown here and one
extracting the PDF files, all these PDF files I need to extract right now.
So in order for me to do that I'm going to add the code here.
I'm going to say from lang chain underscore community.
So basically what I'm going to do over here is if I just go back to the document loader over here and
if I'm going to go hit this PDF, the pie PDF over here, you'll notice that the pie PDF, in order
for me to call it I need to install this pie PDF.
And then we also need to import the document order from the pie PDF loader over here.
So this is the code that we have to do in order for me to extract the data from the PDF file.
So I'm going to do this exact same thing over here.
Um pie PDF loader.
Uh, and then we need to mention the files that I'm going to be extracting.
Right.
So where are these files really.
So all these PDF files are sitting over here.
So I can write some ugly code this time.
So I'm going to say PDF one is equal to uh dot slash attention dot pdf.
And the next PDF that I have got is going to be a dot slash.
Uh, I'm forgetting.
And I also have got another PDF which is going to be PDF three, uh, which is going to be a testing
and evaluation of large language models.
So these are the things that we have got over here.
Uh, let me stop this thing.
We don't even need that.
Uh, and we now need to put all these PDF files into an array like PDF one and PDF two and PDF three,
something like this.
And we can now store all these PDF into an probably a documents array, so that we can then process
that particular documents array splitting and making into smaller chunks.
So that I'm going to do something like this for PDF in PDF files.
So I'm going to iterate through all of them and let me now load all these files.
So how do I how am I going to load this.
So loader is equal to.
This is the same code that I'm using really.
Uh and PDF loader.
So py pdf loader.
So py pdf loader and I'm going to pass the pdf file.
So look at that.
This is how I load all the PDF files.
And I'm going to pass through this loader.
And over here I'm going to store into the documents array.
So all the files uh pages is going to be stored into this particular uh documents array.
Right.
So once I have this particular documents array I can now print and I will show you how this particular,
uh, documents is going to look like.
So I'm just going to say probably, uh, length of the documents over here if I try to run this, um,
oops, sorry.
Load dot load.
I forgot to call this particular method and let me try to run this.
So it is right now loading all the files like totally one, two, three files.
And it has ordered around 253 pages in this particular array.
So this particular document now has got 253 pages for us.
So if I want to print any one of the page I can also do that.
So I'm going to say uh, print uh documents uh, of maybe I'm going to print just the first page for
that matter.
And if I try to run that look at that, I am going to get the entire information over here.
And I think this is all coming from the attention dot PDF file.
So you see that we have got the detail here like subject, uh, title uh, and then traps.
And the source is going to be attention dot PDF file and the page number total pages 15 pages.
So it has now extracted around 15 pages in this particular one document over here.
Uh, and you see that it has got the page content.
So you can actually get the page content and you can do it.
But yeah.
So this is how you can notice that the document is, uh, currently being extracted into PDF files and
stored it over here.